Add ledgerstatefix txn doc (#2971)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/references/protocol/transactions/types/ledgerstatefix.md

---
seo:
    description: Repair corruptions to the XRP ledger.
labels:

>   - Utilities, troubleshooting

Reviewer: Multiple labels are supposed to be on separate lines (yaml list). You can't comma-separate them here.

Author: Done.

> ---
> seo:
>     description: Repair corruptions to the XRP ledger.
> labels:
>   - Utilities
>   - Troubleshooting
> ---

Reviewer: This won't do anything _yet_, but I hope to extend Redocly's sidebar so that we can use this frontmatter field to make the "not enabled" flask icon appear in the sidebar again:

```suggestion
---
seo:
    description: Repair corruptions to the XRP ledger.
labels:
  - Utilities
  - Troubleshooting
status: not_enabled
---
```

# LedgerStateFix
[[Source]](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/blob/master/src/xrpld/app/tx/detail/LedgerStateFix.cpp "Source")

> _(Added by the [fixNFTokenPageLinks amendment][])_

Reviewer: "Added by..." is the text we use for an amendment that has already been enabled. For amendments that are still open for voting, instead:

```suggestion
_(Requires the [fixNFTokenPageLinks amendment][] {% not-enabled /%})_
```

Also, I have been moving to having this line about the amendment added at the _end_ of the introductory section, to improve SEO because it'll show the actually useful description in search results instead of the (less important) info about what amendment added something.

> `LedgerStateFix` is a general purpose transaction used to fix specific issues affecting the XRP ledger. You submit the transaction with the `LedgerFixType` value set to indicate the particular  error state to correct.

Reviewer: Isn't this transaction gated by an amendment? Which one?

Reviewer 2: Added link to amendment.

## Example {% $frontmatter.seo.title %} JSON

```json
{

>    "Account" : "<Signer and fee payer>",

Reviewer: I would like to have an example with real (or at least, realistic) values for this and other fields in this code block, for consistency.

   "Fee" : "2000000",
   "LedgerFixType" : 1,
   "Owner" : "<Account with corrupted NFTokenPage directory",
   "Sequence" : <n>,
   "SigningPubKey" : "<Account's public key>",
   "TransactionType" : "LedgerStateFix",
   "TxnSignature" : "<Signature>",
}
```

{% raw-partial file="/docs/_snippets/tx-fields-intro.md" /%}

| Field | Data Type  | Required? | Description |
|:------|:-----------|:----------|:------------|

> | `TransactionType` | uint16 | Required | Identifies this as a `LedgerStateFix` transaction. |

Reviewer: Nit: casing

```suggestion
| `TransactionType` | UInt16 | Required | Identifies this as a `LedgerStateFix` transaction. |
```

> | `Account` | STAccount | Required | Identifies the account signing and submitting the transaction as well as paying the Fee. |

Reviewer: This is a common field and doesn't need to be listed in this table. Neither does `Fee`, nor `Flags`.

> | Field | Data Type  | Required? | Description |
> |:------|:-----------|:----------|:------------|
> | `LedgerFixType` | uint16 | Required | Currently the only type is _1_, which fixes the NFToken directory for a single account. |
> | `Owner` | STAccount | Optional | Required if `LedgerFixType` == _1_, the account ID that owns the NFToken directory that needs fixing. Need not have any relationship to Account. |

Reviewer: This table still doesn't match the standard format for transaction reference tables:

- It should have both JSON Type and Internal Type columns
- The contents of the "Required?" column are conventionally written as "Yes" or "No"
- `uint16` should be written as `UInt16`

```suggestion
| Field         | JSON Type | [Internal Type][] | Required? | Description |
|:--------------|:----------|:------------------|:----------|:------------|
| `LedgerFixType` | Number | UInt16 | Yes | The type of fix to apply. See [LedgerFixType](#ledgerfixtype) for possible values. Currently the only type is `1`, which fixes the NFToken directory for a single account. |
| `Owner` | String - [Address][] | Account | No | _(Required if `LedgerFixType` is `1`.)_ The account that owns the NFToken directory to fix. Does not need any relationship to the sender of the transaction. |
```

## LedgerFixType

> `LedgerStateFix` transactions are targeted solutions for rare and specific issues. They can't be used to fix ledger issues outside of the described types below:

Reviewer: Nit: it feels misleading to say "types below" when there's only one. Also, I prefer to word this in the positive rather than negative sense, and I feel the word "corruption" is more accurate and less confusing than "issues" (which is a word that has also been used to refer to a type of issued token).

```suggestion
`LedgerStateFix` transactions are targeted solutions for rare and specific issues. They can only be used to fix a specific type of ledger corruption, described below.
```

### Type 1

Corrupt NFT directories resulting from these conditions:

- At least two NFToken pages were in the directory.
- The next-to-last page was completely full, holding 32 NFTokens.
- The last page of the directory contained only one NFToken.
- A transaction removed the last remaining token from the last page, causing the directory to delete the page.

When these conditions were met, the NFToken directory didn't properly update page links, causing holes in the directory when new last pages were created for additional NFTokens.

> The [`fixNFTokenPageLinks` amendment][] fixed new instances of this ledger issue by adding invariant checks.

Reviewer: Nit: technically, the amendment fixes the code that would create them, _and_ adds an invariant check. An invariant check on its own would fail the transaction with no changes. The amendment changes the normal transaction processing code and also adds an invariant check as an extra layer of protection.

More importantly: Technically, past tense here is wrong because fixNFTokenPageLinks is not enabled. Also, don't use backticks inside a reference-style Markdown link because [there are longstanding bugs with that](https://github.com/Python-Markdown/markdown/issues/495) and it also doesn't match how the reference link is defined.

```suggestion
The [fixNFTokenPageLinks amendment][] {% not-enabled /%} prevents new instances of this type of ledger corruption from happening.
```

Reviewer 2: Removed backticks, but keeping present tense since amendement is now live.

> Potential errors are those that can occur for all transactions. {% $frontmatter.seo.title %}. 

Reviewer: Stray variable here.

```suggestion
Potential errors are those that can occur for all transactions.
```

Also I suspect there's at least one error type that doesn't occur for all transactions (if you try to fix something that isn't broken)

> ## LedgerStateFix Flags
> 
> Transactions of the `LedgerStateFix` type can support additional values in the `Flags` field. Currently, there are no flags defined. A future `LedgerFixType` might require flag settings.
> 

Reviewer: This section is unnecessary future-proofing. For consistency with other transaction reference pages, we can simply omit the entire section since there are no flags (currently) defined.

```suggestion
```

## Special Transaction Cost

> The `LedgerStateFix` transaction is rare and potentially compute intensive. The minimum fee is the same as the fee for an [`AccountDelete`][] transaction. If the transaction fails with a tec code, the fee is still charged.

Reviewer: Instead of obliquely referring to the cost of AccountDelete, I suggest copying some language from that page to explain it with less indirection:

```suggestion
The `LedgerStateFix` transaction is rare and potentially compute intensive, so the transaction must pay a special [transaction cost][] equal to at least the [owner reserve](../../../../concepts/accounts/reserves.md) for one item (currently {% $env.PUBLIC_OWNER_RESERVE %}).

The transaction cost always applies when a transaction is included in a validated ledger, even if the transaction fails. (See [Error Cases](#error-cases).) To greatly reduce the chances of paying the high transaction cost if the transaction fails, [submit the transaction](../../../http-websocket-apis/public-api-methods/transaction-methods/submit.md) with `fail_hard` enabled.
```

## Error Cases

> Potential errors are those that can occur for all transactions.

Reviewer: There are more error cases that are specific to this transaction type. If you look at the [source code link](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/blob/master/src/xrpld/app/tx/detail/LedgerStateFix.cpp) for this transactor, you'll see some cases that `return` various other codes. The ones I found are:

```suggestion
Besides errors that can occur for all transactions, {% $frontmatter.seo.title %} transactions can result in the following [transaction result codes](../transaction-results/index.md):

| Error Code                   | Description |
|:-----------------------------|:------------|
| `tecFAILED_PROCESSING`       | The transaction failed to apply the fix. For example, the transaction attempted to repair an NFT directory that was not broken. |
| `tecOBJECT_NOT_FOUND`        | A ledger entry specified in the transaction does not exist. For example, the transaction tried to repair the NFT directory of an account that does not hold any NFTs. |
| `tefINVALID_LEDGER_FIX_TYPE` | The [`LedgerFixType`](#ledgerfixtype) value specified in the transaction is not valid. |
```

> New invariant checks also validate aspects of the links on pages, so a similar corruption returns a tecINVARIANT_FAILED transaction result. That will prevent this specific type of corruption going forward.

Reviewer: Some of these descriptions seem out of place in the transaction reference (it sounds more or less copied from the PR that introduced the invariant checks along with the transaction type)

Reviewer 2: I updated the language to try and match a reference doc.
